Kindergarten Massaker



Pitch

	Peaceful Alien lands in a Kindergarten. Kids are coming from everywhere. More and more. They tend to surround the Alien and they want “blood”! The Alien has to avoid kids in order to survive. Everything’s seen through a surveillance cam that gets buggier and buggier up to the point that it shuts down. End of game?
Gameplay (more or less)

	The game will be a Top Down Shooter in 2D pixel art style.

	The game will be in German (just because the title rocks in German).

	1 player versus CPU.

	1 difficulty level.

	One game lasts up to 1 minute (or a bit more with luck as player will become “blind” at some point). As long as the Alien can survive, the game isn’t over but considering that after about 1 minute the screen gets black, I don’t think the game will last very long after that...

	The only thing that will be recorded is HOW LONG YOU SURVIVED! (only the best time). We’ll give the length of the game but (if it doesn’t break the record, then) “it’ll be lost for ever like tears in the rain!” This means that we’ll have to write something in a file on the computer… Is that a good idea (probably not) but considering that there is now a lot to unlock in the game, it could be nice to not have to unlock everything every time… 

	Nothing to gather: no bonus, no health, no money, no points, no weapon, no armor, no nothing!

	“Contact” with enemies deals no damage, only physical attacks/projectiles/weapons do.

	The Alien is invulnerable for the first 2 seconds of the game “flashing” white for 3 frames!
	While invulnerable, the alien can’t use his talent…

	Whenever mentioning a color, it as to be taken form the game’s palette!
The Alien

The Aliens have female German old fashioned names: the player’s Alien is called Brünhild, the other one at the teleportation desk is called Gudrun and the Great Tependicular’s name is Hildegard!

The Alien has 1000 hit points (HP).

	The Alien has 1 defensive skill to choose:

	- Random teleportation (cooldown: 10 seconds). Available teleportation points are defined in the Background.tscn. Uses RANDOM TELEPORTATION fx.
	- Dash (pass through kids and attacks – cooldown: 15 seconds). Uses DASH fx.
	- Repulsive explosion (repulsive effect only on kids – not the ranged attacks – cooldown: 10 seconds). Uses REPULSIVE EXPLOSION fx.
	- Freezing shockwave (Freezes nearby enemies for 4 seconds – not the ranged attacks – cooldown: 15 seconds). Uses FREEZING SHOCKWAVE fx.
	- Quick runner (runs 20% faster – permanent). It means increasing fps or m/s. Uses NO fx.
	- Force field (repulsive effect for 6 seconds on ranged attacks – cooldown: 10 seconds). Uses FORCE FIELD fx.
	- Time stop (affects everything (except the Alien) for 3 seconds – cooldown: 20 seconds).  Uses TIME STOP fx.
	- Mirror images (3 invulnerable copies of the Alien appear (“flashing” white for 3 frames) and start running in random directions (movement collisions apply) from the player attracting close enough kids for 3 seconds then disappear (“flashing” white for 3 frames) – cooldown: 15 seconds). If hit by an attack, the mirror image disappears instantly (“flashing” white for 3 frames). Uses MIRROR IMAGES fx.
	- Dodger (hit box size reduced by 20% – permanent). Uses NO fx.
	- Invisible (makes enemies go away as if the Alien wasn’t here for 4 seconds but can take damages and movement collisions apply)– cooldown: 20 seconds). Uses INVISIBLE fx.
	- Shield (invulnerable to hand-to-hand attacks for 3 seconds – cooldown: 10 seconds). Uses SHIELD fx.
	- Second life (restart with 300 HP from where the Alien died – only 1 time). No teleportation at the restart. The enemies resume doing their things. The alien stays dead for 2 seconds then revives, quickly “flashing” white for 1 second (invulnerable at restart for 1 second).
	- Healthy (20% more hit points – permanent). Uses NO fx.
	- Regeneration (5 hp per second – permanent). Uses NO fx.
	- Hand to hand specialist (50% damage from short range but 200% damage from long range – permanent). Uses NO fx.
	- Ranged fighting expert (50% damage from long range but 200% damage from short range – permanent). Uses NO fx.
	- None! Uses NO fx.
	- Der Techniker The technician (hidden talent to unlock (see condition at the end) – only 1 time). Resets the game overlay shader values (and restarts its animation!). We’ll eventually also reset the random selections in the Overlay #1). This allows a longer game leading to more kids… Once the screen starts shuting down, you can’t use that talent. Uses TECHNIKER fx.
	- Zufällig… Hidden “talent” to unlock (see condition at the end). A random talent is selected at game launch… The player won’t know which one has been selected until using it (if not permanent).
	- Kotzsicher “Vomit-proof” (the alien can walk through vomit suffering only 50% of damages – permanent). (see condition at the end) Uses NO fx.
	- Bullet time (everything except the Alien is slowed down by 50% for 3 seconds – cooldown: 15 seconds). (see condition at the end). “Almost” uses MIRROR IMAGES fx but with Bullet_time.wav!
	- Geist (the Alien takes no damage and can pass through enemies for 4 seconds – cooldown: 20 seconds). (see condition at the end). “Almost” uses INVISIBLE fx but flashes white instead of being transparent and Geist.wav!

	Shaders are never affected by talents (except by Der Techniker)!

	Skill cooldown is shown by the sprite outline color (red means not ready).
	No HP shown on screen (we’ll eventually show that also with the outline turning blue).
	When hit, the Alien flashes white for 3 frames.
	Each skill has its own cooldown (duration depending on the skill as seen above).


Enemies

- Throwing Booger Kids (slow medium ranged explosives with small effect area):
	Alien loses 100 HP when hit. Only deals damage after exploding on the ground!
	While in the air, it isn’t stopped by kids, teacher nor alien.

- Spitting Kids (quick short ranged projectile).
	Alien loses 50 HP when hit. Disappears before hitting ground (at the end of the animation).

- Kids With Sticks (very quick hand to hand attack).
	Alien loses 25 HP when hit.

- Crying Kids run randomly then stop to cry. If the Alien is close enough, that kid will try to kick him. Then resume his routine.
	Alien loses 75 HP when hit.

- Vomiting Kids (attack with large effect area). Wandering, then vomiting somewhere there’s enough space for the puddle, then resuming… The vomit puddle generate an area that everybody’s running away from. As soon as the kid starts vomiting, the area is locked for the teacher and other kids to avoid it.
	Alien loses 50 HP per second when walking in the vomit puddle until exiting it. He also takes decreasing damage for up to 2 seconds (35HP the first second, then 15HP the next one) after exiting the area. Alien becomes green (except outline) until he exits the vomit puddle.

- The teacher (see *1 below) running randomly then stops looking around then resumes. When seeing the Alien, she runs toward the situation, aiming at a point ahead of the Alien. Then she tries to stop the mess by saying “no” to the Alien.

----------

About “IA”, above is a basic description of the enemy behaviors. In the Pac-Man game, one ghost aims at Pac-Man, another aims ahead of Pac-Man, the third has a random behavior and the fourth ghost tries to reach Pac-Man when close enough. More or less. Maybe we could be inspired by these ideas for our kids.

Every single kid has a somewhat random size of its detection collider (+/-15%). Maybe useless?
Technically

	Animations at 10fps.

	Every game starts from a random point in the area. available spawning points are established before hand (in Background.tscn).

	Camera bug effects constantly evolve up to the max after 1 minute and the last effect (screen shutdown) always happens just after that… But the game still goes on and the shader still applies. It’s just “stuck” at the maximum effect reached at the end of the animation!

	Alien and Enemies have 8 action directions.

	Alien animations (left and right are flopped animations, up/left and up/right are flopped animations and down/left and down/right are also flopped animations):
	8 Move (run) directions
	8 Idle directions
	8 Getting Hit directions
	8 Death Directions (needed for second life talent)

	Enemies (kids) animations (left and right are flopped animations, up/left and up/right are flopped animations and down/left and down/right are also flopped animations):
	8 move (run) directions
	8 attack directions
	8 Idle directions
	8 waving directions (when two kids face each other and only in this case, they forget about the Alien and stop running then wave at each other for a couple of seconds then resume moving) – only throwing booger kids, spitting kids, crying kids and kids with sticks.

	Teacher animations (left and right are flopped animations, up/left and up/right are flopped animations and down/left and down/right are also flopped animations):
	8 (idle/)checking directions
	8 run directions
	8 “stop fighting” directions
	

	Enemy behaviors:

	Followers and stoppers and followers, etc.:
		Throwing Booger Kids (run randomly then stop then resume… Until they detect the Alien and then follow him to throw projectile at him but stay in range). They throw up to 5 boogers until going away for 3 seconds.
		Spitting Kids (run randomly then stop then resume… Until they detect the Alien and then follow him to throw projectile at him but stay in range). When the Alien’s hit, they go away for 3 seconds.
	Followers:
		Kids With Sticks (run randomly then stop then resume… Until they detect the Alien and then follow him to beat the hell out of him). They never stop attacking if the Alien is at reach. If not, they try to reach him.

	Somewhat random:
		Vomiting Kids (run randomly then stop to vomit then resume but stay in range). They never commit in long or short range attacks.
		Crying Kids (run randomly then stop to cry for 3 seconds then resume… Until the Alien is detected and then they try to reach him for a good kicking session. They go away only after hitting the Alien 3 times then resume.
		Teacher (she’s looking around with the Check animation played randomly between 2 and 4 times, runs somewhere else and again and again. When seeing the alien (using the Alien_Detection_Collider in the Checking animation), then she reacts by playing her OMG animation (1 time). She starts running aiming a point in front of the Alien and then tries to make the Alien go away by playing her No animation. She’s a monolith: she tends to not be affected by the Alien Collision collider (kids’ Collisions Colliders). When the Alien quits her “Alien Detection Collider” (in the No animation) or after 4 seconds, she tries to resume her action: she runs towards a point in front of the Alien, etc. If the Alien dies (only when his power is “Second Life” otherwise we never see him die in game), then she starts running somewhere else to look around... – (see *1 above))


	The game starts with 1 Teacher (only 1 per game), 1 Crying Kid, 1 Vomiting Kid, 1 Throwing Booger Kid, 3 Kids with Stick and 2 Spitting Kid spawning randomly on the map. Eventually from spawning points defined before hands too.

	After 5 seconds of game, every 2 seconds 1 kid spawns in the field (outside of the screen). It doesn’t apply when the Alien dies and until he revives after using Second Life talent:

	Chances of spawning:
		Spitting Kid: 25%
		Kid with Stick: 30%
		Throwing Booger Kid: 19%
		Crying Kid: 13%
		Vomiting Kid: 13%

	Kids are running randomly until they detect the Alien (or another kid and are able to wave at each other). They stop waving at each other after 3 seconds then resume…  

	Enemies detection colliders will have a somewhat random size (about 10%).

	Kids don’t wave while fighting.

	Kids are slower than the Alien and the teacher is faster than the Alien.

	Just in case it wasn’t obvious, spits, vomit puddles and boogers don’t affect kids and teacher!

	Kids and teacher avoid vomit puddles.

	What follows could very be more or less obsolete by the time the project really starts.

	Kids with Sticks have 4 colliders:
		1 obstacle collider (for background, vomit, other kids, teacher and Alien).
		1 Alien detection collider.
		1 waving collider.
		1 attack collider.

	Spitting Kids have “4” colliders:
		1 obstacle collider (for background, vomit, other kids, teacher and Alien).
		1 Alien detection collider.
		1 waving collider.
		“1” emitter point for their projectiles.

	Throwing Booger Kids have “4” colliders:
		1 obstacle collider (for background, vomit, other kids, teacher and Alien).
		1 Alien detection collider.
		1 waving collider.
		“1” emitter point for their projectiles.

	Vomiting Kids have 2 colliders:
		1 obstacle collider (for background, vomit, other kids, teacher and Alien).
		1 collider to never unleash a vomit puddle that intersects with the background colliders.

	Crying Kids have 4 colliders:
		1 obstacle collider (for background, vomit, other kids, teacher and Alien).
		1 collider to detect if they are close enough to the Alien to start kicking him.
		1 waving collider.
		1 attack collider.

	The Teacher has 2 colliders:
		1 obstacle collider (for background, vomit, kids and the Alien).
		1 Alien detection collider (!).

	The Alien has 2 colliders + 1 special:
		1 obstacle collider (for background, kids and the teacher).
		1 “get hit” collider.
		1 target “collider” (used by the Teacher as her target to reach).

	When a projectile hits the Alien, the projectile flashes white at contact then disappears.

About screen shaders

	The game starts with a random Game_Overlay (without launching animations).
	We always have CRT_Overlay.tscn on top of everything.
	Death.tscn hits without any transition and the Game_Overlay used gets back to its default value (otherwise we won’t be able to read).
	No transition between menu screens. Well, now there is to please Geoff (and I don’t mind at all). ;-)


	Now game overlay scenes incorporate AnimationPlayers so no code is needed except for Game_overlay_1.tscn as we have to randomly choose if Aberration, Brightness, Saturation and Contrast go toward positive or negative values.

	NOTE: as it is, the transition scene doesn’t cross fades between two playing scenes but between a screenshot of the active scene that will replace the scene and the following scene. That’s not “perfect” (I don’t know how to cross fade between two “active scenes”. Is there even a way to do that without asking too much to the GPU?

“Script” of a game

	Contrary to what you can hear in the “demo”, the music shouldn’t be interrupted by changing menu screens. The same music (MENUS.wav) plays until the game itself.

	When starting a game (using the Beam me down, Gudrun! Button), we’ll use the transition screen to go to the game itself. Music will cross fade from music of the menus to the game music while the transition screen plays (starting with INTRO_GAME.wav music then playing the INGAME.wav music in loop).

	Death screen will hit without any transition. When hitting the A button on this screen we’ll use the transition screen again and cross fading music from here back to the game (just as described above) with the same Game_overlay. Any other button will bring back the Menu scene (Menu.tscn) without the transition in order to change the game overlay!

About Menus (and hidden talents)

	After going one time to the Credits.tscn and back to the previous menu (Menu.tscn) then appears the new (x) option that allows the player to access the Dialogue.tscn.


CONDITION to UNLOCK Zufällig:

	Watching Dialogue.tscn entirely.


You just can’t unlock these before unlocking Zufällig:


CONDITIONS to UNLOCK Kotzsicher:

	Dying after 15 seconds.

CONDITIONS to UNLOCK Bullet time:

	Dying after 30 seconds.

CONDITIONS to UNLOCK Geist:

	Dying after 45 seconds.

CONDITIONS to UNLOCK Der Techniker:

	Dying after 60 seconds.

CONDITIONS to UNLOCK Rücklauf
(if validated, we’ll exchange the list position with Der Techniker:

	Dying after 65 seconds.
Shaders

	The top overlay is CRT_Overlay.tscn and is always on!

	The game overlay (Game_Overlay_1(or 2 or 3 or 4).tscn) is randomly selected before the Title screen. Another one is eventually also randomly selected just before going back to Menu.tscn (without transition screen) after dying in game. Game overlay animations don’t start until the “real” game starts (after the teleportation of the Alien)…

	If time comes, Shutdown_Overlay.tscn is inserted between the game and Game_Overlay_1(or 2 or 3 or 4).tscn AND shader values of the game overlay are reset instantly. Of course, that will depend on how the project is handled in Godot.
Dialogue scene

	Here’s the text in the Dialogue scene, (heavily) inspired by Alexandre Astier’s dialogues in Kaamelott:

	- Hail Brünhild!
	- Hail Hildegard, O great Tependicular of all!
	- Brünhild, we need you for a mission of the utmost importance this day, O you, our greatest exosociologist and oncologist (and also rheumatologist) now retired.
	- I cannot refuse you anything, O Hildegard, you who taught my son Ursula to read (but not to count).
	- Due to a strange disease that, contrary to all expectations, seems to be endowed with a primary form of intelligence, life on this planet is on the verge of extinction. We need to...
	- Say no more O Hildegard, I'm going immediately!
Options

	Adding 1 more difficulty mode to the normal one: Super Hyper Mega Hardcore (more enemies moving and attacking quickly, nerfed Alien skills, slower Alien, enemies dealing more damage).
	Up to 4 Aliens simultaneously (bigger map).
	Online mode.
	Adding new Aliens would be great.
	Adding new skillls.
	Adding new enemies (with new behaviors) would be great too.
	With a lot of courage, new maps would also be added…
What we borrowed from the world outside:

Assets from Animallogic
Fonts from Iconian Fonts
Sounds from Mixkit.co, Freesound.org, Quicksounds.com
Video shaders by Ahopness (original shaders by: Timothy Lottes, Keijiro, Ehj1, FMS_Cat), Yui Kinomoto, Peter Höglund
Stuff from PlayWithFurcifer, Jon Topielski, 

Did we forget something/someone?